# â¬‡ middle-low level

The 'level' of a programming language indicates how close it is to human
understanding versus how close it is to a computer's processing capabilities.
**Lower-level** languages are closer to the machine's language, while
**high-level** languages are more abstracted and closer to human language. For
instance, an assembly language specific to a processor represents one of the
lowest-level languages for that system. Conversely, GUI-based languages like
[Scratch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scratch_(programming_language)) are
among the highest-level languages. In high-level languages, abstracted models of
the computer are created, allowing programmers to focus less on the intricacies
of CPU architecture and memory organization. However, when using low-level
languages, a deeper understanding of the computer's workings is often necessary
to fully leverage the benefits these languages offer.

Programming languages can typically be classified into three categories based on
their levels: low-level, middle-level, and high-level. **C is often regarded as a
middle-level language**, though it leans closely towards the lower end of the
spectrum. This positioning reflects its balance between providing direct
hardware control, characteristic of low-level languages, and offering some level
of abstraction, common in high-level languages.

When a C program is compiled, the resulting assembly code often closely mirrors
the original C source code, line-by-line. This close correlation has led to C
being sometimes referred to as a **portable assembly language**. C is known for
its compactness, avoiding the
[bloat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_bloat) often associated with
high-level languages. Unlike many high-level languages that offer sophisticated
mechanisms like garbage collection to simplify programming tasks, C places the
full responsibility on the programmer. This includes managing aspects like
memory allocation and deallocation, making C both powerful and demanding.

The categorization of a programming language's level can evolve with
technological advancements. As noted in [](../history.md), `Unix and C` part,
the rewrite of UNIX in C in 1973 was a revolutionary move. At that time, C was
considered a high-level language. Today, however, with the emergence of
languages like Python and Java, as well as GUI-based languages like Scratch or
Simulink, C is seen as occupying a lower level by comparison. These newer
languages are considered to be at a much higher level than C in the current
technological landscape. It's interesting to consider that in the future, what
we now regard as high-level languages might shift to be seen as middle-level, as
the field of programming continues to evolve and grow.

## Related

- [Why is C called a middle-level
  language?](https://www.quora.com/Why-is-C-called-a-middle-level-language)
- The close relation between C and machine language:

```{youtube} yOyaJXpAYZQ
:align: center
:width: 100%
```

[YouTube Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yOyaJXpAYZQ)

```{disqus}
:disqus_identifier: e40b576c-0bd7-4280-90d8-cec9c587553e
```
