# ðŸŽŠ popular

There's no question about C's popularity. It's the language behind the kernels
of almost all operating systems, like Linux, and is extensively used in embedded
systems that utilize microcontrollers. Despite being 50 years old, C remains a
top choice for software that needs to operate closely with hardware, demands
high performance, and requires minimal space. Both C and C++ are favored in
system programming applications that run on operating systems but also have
stringent performance requirements. One of the key advantages of writing in C is
the ability to understand precisely how your code interacts with the hardware,
providing a clear insight into the execution process.

Certainly, C isn't a one-size-fits-all solution for every programming challenge.
If such a universal language existed, it would dominate all software
development, and the vast array of languages we see today wouldn't be necessary.
However, there are specific domains where C excels and few alternatives can
match its performance. Its popularity is particularly evident among
professionals working in these areas. Despite this, there's often a desire to
quantify such subjective perceptions of popularity with numerical data. So, the
question arises: **How do we objectively measure the popularity of a programming
language like C?**

One numerical indicator of a programming language's popularity is the [TIOBE
Index.](https://www.tiobe.com/tiobe-index/) While there are various discussions
and debates about the methodology and accuracy of this measurement, which I'll
delve into in later sections, it serves as a useful starting point for our
discussion. Let's explore what the TIOBE Index reveals about programming
language trends for now.

## TIOBE Index

As of December 2023, when this article was written, [the TIOBE
Index](https://www.tiobe.com/tiobe-index/), which is updated monthly, ranks
programming languages by their global popularity. According to this index, the C
programming language holds the position of **the second most popular language**,
with Python leading at first place and C++ following closely in third. A review
of the index over the past 35 years reveals a consistent trend: **the C language
has always been among the top two most popular languages according to this
measure.**

The TIOBE Index employs a measurement method that has sparked controversy. It
quantifies the popularity of programming languages based on the number of search
engine results related to each language [^1f]. This approach has been a subject of
significant debate, with various opinions questioning its validity and
meaningfulness. I have delved into this topic extensively in a detailed article.

```{todo}
Don't forget to add TIOBE Index article when it's ready.
```

In conclusion, the question arises: Is C a popular language and does its
popularity matter to us? Consider this - languages like Verilog and VHDL,
crucial in FPGA and ASIC design, may not rank high on popularity scales. Does
this mean they're not worth learning? Absolutely not! For professionals in these
fields, mastery of these languages is essential. The key takeaway is that the
necessity of learning a language should be based on your specific needs and
interests, not merely its popularity. C, as I mentioned earlier, is a standout
in certain domains. If you're planning to work in those areas or are simply
curious, learning C is invaluable. Beyond that, I'd suggest not to fixate too
much on popularity metrics.

## Further Read

- [A Hacker News discussion on TIOBE Index](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=19767725)

[^1f]: <https://www.tiobe.com/tiobe-index/programminglanguages_definition/>

```{disqus}
:disqus_identifier: 8ad0d052-e480-4569-85ee-ae0af186957b
```
