# ðŸ““ standard

C stands out as a programming language with formal standardization. It has
official standard documents recognized by the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO). This formal standardization sets it apart from widely
used languages like Python and Perl, which, although not formally standardized,
have documents that act as *de facto* standards. It's noteworthy that before its
formal standardization, C was guided by a de facto standard, primarily the book
[The C Programming
Language.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_C_Programming_Language) This book
served as the unofficial standard for C from 1978 until the language's first
official standardization in 1989.

The official C standards are designated using the format `ISO/IEC 9899:<YEAR>`.
For instance, the C11 standard is officially named [ISO/IEC
9899:2011](https://www.iso.org/standard/57853.html).

Thanks to the established standards, there are high-quality C compilers
available, developed both by communities and companies. Examples include [GCC
(GNU Compiler Collection)](https://gcc.gnu.org/),
[Clang/LLVM](https://clang.llvm.org/), and [MSVC (Microsoft Visual
C++)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Visual_C%2B%2B). Compilers that
adhere to the rules defined in these standards are referred to as **conforming
compilers.** This standardization ensures a level of consistency and reliability
in compiler behavior across different platforms and use cases. (see:
[](../glossary/conforming-compiler.md))

```{note}
History of C standards are explained in [](../history.md).
```

## Related

- [What do you mean by conforming and non-conforming
  compiler?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67310135/what-do-you-mean-by-conforming-and-non-conforming-compiler)
- [Python not a standardized language?](https://stackoverflow.com/a/1535727)

```{disqus}
:disqus_identifier: cd766833-6cf9-4260-a5f4-889e2e0d4dc8
```
