---
giscus: 8cdd3b37-52f3-428f-abfb-b5e8ff215ac6
---

# ⁉️ About My Notes

On this page, I want to provide various information about the notes I've shared
on this site. It will be useful to check this page before reading my notes to
shape your expectations.

## Not Intended for Educational or Course Purposes

**The purpose of my notes is not to teach the subject to those who do not know
it and are learning.** While writing most of my notes, I try to maintain a
logical order and be as descriptive as possible. However, I'm not preparing
educational, course, or lecture notes. If you are having difficulty following
the content I share, it might be more suitable to go through related course
materials first, then come back and refer to my notes later. If you enjoy it and
find it helpful, that's great, and I will be happy. Feel free to ask about any
points you get stuck on, and I will try to explain as best as I can. However,
the majority of my writings are not written with the intention of teaching
someone who doesn't know the topic. I do not have a background as an educator,
nor do I claim "I explain this topic very well" or "Come and learn from me."

**I am just sharing my notes with you openly, I am not creating a course on the
topics.**

## Notes in Mixed Turkish and English

In the notes written in Turkish, many English words are used, mostly technical
terms. It might result in a text that could be described as "Tarzanca" or "Plaza
İngilizcesi" in Turkish. I don’t enjoy this, but as I mentioned, these are my
personal notes, so I try to write them in a way I will remember when I look back
at them.

Some terms have become ingrained in my mind in Turkish. For example, I can say
"aygıt sürücüsü" instead of "device driver" because that’s how it appeared in
the Turkish version of Windows I encountered in my childhood, and it stuck with
me. However, for some terms (not that there is an issue with the words
themselves, I just might have encountered their Turkish counterparts later), I
continue writing in English. For example, I often can't think of "pipeline" as
"boru hattı" in Turkish.

Although I don’t particularly enjoy mixed Turkish-English content, this is how
it is. Normally, in my private notes or when speaking with colleagues, the
language mixture gets even worse. But I make a conscious effort to write more
carefully in my open notes here. **So, what you see here is the best I could
manage…**

## Content Accuracy

I try to support the content I create with as many sources as possible.
Sometimes, I spend an hour researching just to write a few sentences. For me,
content accuracy is more important than the number of articles. Of course, I
can't claim that everything is 100% accurate, but accuracy is one of the areas I
am most careful about. **So, I would greatly appreciate it if you point out any
mistakes you see.**

## Grammar Mistakes and Weak Sentences

While I pay close attention to ensuring technical accuracy, I sometimes overlook
grammar rules or sentence structures. There are two main reasons for this:
Sometimes, I rush to release content quickly or produce more content in less
time, and I don't take the time to reread and correct my writings. Other times,
I might be wrong about grammar rules, thinking I’ve done it correctly when I’ve
actually made an error.

If you notice any mistakes, please let me know, or if you correct them yourself
and submit a *Pull Request*, I would be happy to make the corrections.

## Content Is Incomplete and Alive

Many of the topics I write about are quite comprehensive, so I can add to them
as time allows. If I waited for a topic to be fully completed, it would take
years to create the content, so I add to the notes as I write. Therefore, most
of the content you see may be incomplete. If a post is incomplete, I indicate it
within the text. I generally try not to leave articles incomplete.

Similarly, I revise content whenever I find time. As a result, articles may
improve or change over time. Since this site is open source, if you'd like, you
can check older versions in the [GitHub
repository](https://github.com/alperyazar/ayazar.dev).

## Content Is Incomplete and Outdated

Some content might be incomplete and may never be finished. If I am not working
on a particular topic, there will likely be no new notes on that subject.
Similarly, some content might be complete but outdated. I might have worked on
it in the past but haven't revisited it for a while. Due to its age, the
information in these posts might be outdated and thus partially correct or
completely wrong. I try to correct it when I notice, but I might miss some.

Each page has a `Last updated` date at the bottom. This information is extracted
from the `git` history. So, even small changes can update this date. However, an
updated date doesn't mean the content is current, but if this date is old, it
means the content has not been updated. Therefore, the content is unlikely to be
more recent than this date, though it could be earlier.

```{todo}
Improve the accuracy of the last update date.
Ref: <https://github.com/alperyazar/ayazar.dev/issues/16>
```

---

That's all for now. If I think of anything else, I will add new points.
